===== PAGE 1 =====
In association with
Specimen Examination Paper 1
STEP Advanced Certificate 
in Company Law and Practice
(International)

===== PAGE 2 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
2
Question 1
You have been appointed as company secretary (or administrator) of Company Ltd (‘Company’). A and 
B are directors of Company; C, D and E are its registered shareholders, owning 70%, 20% and 10% of the 
issued share capital respectively.
The articles of association of Company are attached, marked Appendix 1.
You are asked to convene a general meeting of Company to take place on 28 August for the purpose 
of placing the company into voluntary liquidation, a decision which, under applicable companies 
legislation, requires a three-quarter majority vote or such other lesser super-majority defined in 
the articles.
1.1 Draft a notice for the meeting.
 (5 marks)
1.2 Upon whom should the notice be served? How do you suggest the notice be served and when?
 (4 marks)
1.3 What is the effect of a failure to give proper notice?
 (3 marks)
1.4 Assume for the purposes of this question that only C turns up for the meeting at the appointed 
time on 28 August. Can C pass the resolution? Explain your answer.
 (4 marks)
1.5 Assume for the purpose of this question that all three shareholders attend at the appointed time. 
On a show of hands D and E vote against the motion. What is the result of the vote? What would 
you expect C to do in these circumstances?
 (4 marks)
Total: 20 marks
CLI16/16363

===== PAGE 3 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
3
Question 2
You are employed by Corporate Services Provider in the jurisdiction of your choice and are responsible 
for the administration of a managed company, Company Ltd ( ‘Company’). In a preliminary paragraph 
of your answer, you must clearly state your chosen jurisdiction and apply this consistently throughout.
Company has issued two shares, both of which are held by Corporate Services Provider (Nominees) Ltd, 
a subsidiary of Corporate Services Provider, as nominee for Mr AB.
Company has a sole director, namely Corporate Services Provider (Directorships) Ltd, another subsidiary 
of Corporate Services Provider. 
Articles of association of the Company are attached to this Examination Paper, marked Appendix 1.
Mr AB’s Relationship Manager at Corporate Services Provider advises you that Mr AB has arranged for 
Company to borrow $5 million from XYZ Bank, Miami, in order for the Company to buy a Lear Star Jet 
(Tail Fin No.1234). The loan will be secured by way of legal mortgage over the aircraft. Upon completion 
of the purchase, the aircraft’s registration is to be transferred from the US Federal Aviation Authority 
(FAA) to the Isle of Man Aircraft Registry. 
2.1 Describe the corporate procedures that must be followed for Company to carry out the 
transactions described above.  
(10 marks)
2.2 Draft appropriate resolutions to authorise Company lawfully to enter into and complete 
the transactions.
(10 marks)
Total: 20 marks

===== PAGE 4 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
4
Question 3
You are employed as a trust officer by International Trust Company, a trust company carrying on 
business in an offshore jurisdiction of your choice. In a preliminary paragraph of your answer, you must 
clearly state your chosen jurisdiction and apply this consistently throughout.
You manage an underlying company by the name of Company Ltd (‘Company’). The shares of Company 
are held by International Trust Company according to the terms of the Redhouse Trust.
Company holds world-wide assets on behalf of the trustee of the Redhouse Trust, including an account 
with Midcity Bank.
You have been appointed as a co-director of Company together with a colleague, Ms Avril Nath. 
The articles of the Company are in the same form as those attached marked Appendix 1.
3.1 Describe the usual division of power to manage the business of a company and explain why 
it arose from a historical perspective.
(6 marks)
3.2 How, if at all, is the division of power referred to in Question 3.1 affected by the terms of Article 
19.1 of the Company’s articles? 
(4 marks)
3.3 Discuss how such division of power is affected when the Company is an underlying 
asset-holding company that is managed and controlled by an offshore trustee?
(5 marks)
3.4 By what method, and in which circumstances, may you be removed from office as a director 
of the Company? If you are removed, how and in what circumstances may a new director be 
appointed in your place?
(5 marks)
Total: 20 marks

===== PAGE 5 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
5
Question 4
‘A directorship is a double-edged sword. It can bring reward, but it also carries certain risks. ’
Discuss the above statement so far as it relates to risk. Identify the main problem areas and state how 
a director may seek to reduce the exposure.
Total: 20 marks

===== PAGE 6 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
6
Question 5
Company Ltd (‘Company’) is incorporated in the jurisdiction of your choice. In a preliminary paragraph 
of your answer, you must clearly state your chosen jurisdiction and apply this consistently throughout.
Company is insolvent. It has assets consisting of: 
 y real estate, known as ‘Blackacre’ , valued at $1.7 million 
 y moveable chattels, known as ‘artwork’ , valued at $550,000
 y cash in Bank of $40,000
 y securities, held with Broker, of $310,000.
It is owed the sum of $5,000 by PB Oil Co.
The liabilities of Company consist of: 
 y a loan from Mortgagee which is ‘underwater’ insofar as it is secured by fixed legal charge over 
Blackacre amounting to $2.4 million
 y unpaid legal fees owed to Lawyer of $120,000
 y unpaid accountancy fees due to Accountancy Firm of $15,000
 y unpaid fees due to Corporate Service Provider of $60,000
 y an unpaid lawful and enforceable tax liability to Revenue Authority of the state of incorporation 
of the Company amounting to $55,000
 y miscellaneous trade creditors of $225,000.
The corporate documentation reveals that Company was initially financed by way of shareholder loan 
from Beneficial Owner of $500,000, which is recorded by simple promissory note and is still outstanding.
5.1 Compare and contrast the voluntary members, and the voluntary creditors, winding-up process. 
Advice which is the appropriate process for Company to follow.
(5 marks)
5.2 You are appointed as the liquidator of Company. Assume that the corporate assets are realised 
for their estimated values and the receivable is collected in full. Your own fees and disbursements 
amount to $40,000.
Draft the liquidator’s final Statement of Account to complete the winding-up.
(15 marks)
Total: 20 marks 
END OF PAPER

===== PAGE 7 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
7
Appendix 1
Articles of Association
regulating the management of Company
1. Definitions
In these articles the terms below shall have the meanings set opposite to them.
‘Articles’ means the articles of the Company in their present form or as amended from time 
to time
‘Companies Legislation’ means every statute, Order in Council and regulation for the time being 
in force in [jurisdiction] affecting companies
‘Company’ means the company incorporated in [jurisdiction] under the name of [name].
‘Registered office’ means the registered office for the time being of the Company, situated at 
such place in [jurisdiction] as the directors shall determine.
‘Resolution’ means a resolution of the shareholders of the Company in general meeting passed 
by a simple majority of votes of the shareholders entitled to vote; an ‘ordinary resolution’ being 
passed by a simple majority of votes of the shareholders entitled to vote; a ‘special resolution’ 
being passed by a super-majority of two thirds of the votes of shareholders entitled to vote.
2. Shares
2.1  Subject to the provisions, if any, in that behalf of the memorandum of association, and 
without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the holders of existing 
shares, any shares may be issued with such preferred, deferred or other special rights, or 
such restrictions whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of share capital or otherwise 
as the Company may, from time to time, by special resolution determine.
2.2  Subject to the provisions, if any, in that behalf of the memorandum of association, 
preference shares may, by special resolution, be issued on terms that they are to 
be redeemed:
(a) on a given date or on the happening of a specified event
(b) at the option of the company, or, if authorised by the memorandum, at the option of 
the holder.
2.3 Subject to the provisions of these articles, the un-issued shares of the Company shall be at the 
disposal of the board of directors who may offer, allot, issue or otherwise dispose of them to 
such persons, at such time, for such consideration, and upon such terms and conditions as the 
directors may determine.

===== PAGE 8 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
8
3. Share certificates
3.1 Every person whose name is entered as a shareholder in the register of members shall, without 
payment, be entitled to a certificate of the company specifying the share or shares held by him 
and the amount paid up thereon:
4. Modification of shareholder rights
4.1 If, at any time, the share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached 
to any class (unless otherwise provided by the terms of issue of the shares of that class) may 
be varied with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the 
holders of the shares of the class. To every such separate general meeting the provisions of these 
regulations relating to general meetings shall, mutatis mutandis apply, but so that the necessary 
quorum shall be two persons at least holding or representing by proxy one-third of the issued 
shares of the class and that any holder of shares of the class present in person or by proxy may 
demand a poll.
5. Lien
5.1 The Company shall have a lien on every share (not being a fully paid share) for all moneys 
(whether presently payable or not) called or payable at a fixed time in respect of that share, 
and the Company shall also have a lien on all shares (other than fully paid shares) standing 
registered in the name of a single person for all moneys presently payable by him or his estate to 
the Company. The Company’s lien, if any, on a share shall extend to all dividends payable thereon.
5.2 The Company may sell, in such manner as the directors think fit, any shares in which the 
Company has a lien.
6. Calls on shares
6.1 The directors may, from time to time, make calls upon the shareholders in respect of any moneys 
unpaid on the shares; and each shareholder shall (subject to receiving at least 14 days’ notice 
specifying the time or times of payment) pay to the Company at the time or times so specified 
the amount called on his shares.
6.2 If a sum called in respect of a share is not paid before or on the day appointed for payment 
thereof, the person from whom the sum is due shall pay interest upon the sum at the rate of 6% 
per annum from the day appointed for the payment thereof to the time of the actual payment, 
but the directors shall be at liberty to waive payment of that interest wholly or in part.
7. Forfeiture of Shares (for unpaid calls)
7.1 If a member fails to pay any call or instalment of a call on the day appointed for payment thereof, 
the directors may, at any time thereafter during such time as any part of such call or instalment 
remains unpaid, serve a notice on him requiring payment of so much of the call or instalment as 
is unpaid, together with any interest which may have accrued.
7.2 If the requirements of a call notice is not complied with, any share in respect of which the notice 
has been given may at any time thereafter, before the payment required by the notice has been 
made, be forfeited by a resolution of the directors to that effect.

===== PAGE 9 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
9
8. Transfer and Transmission of Shares
8.1 The instrument of transfer of any share shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and 
transferee, and the transferor shall be deemed to remain a holder of the share until the name 
of the transferee is entered in the register of members in respect thereof.
8.2 Shares shall be transferred in the following form, or in any usual or common form approved by 
the directors:
‘I, [name of transferor], of [address] in consideration of the sum of $[price] paid to me by [name 
of transferee], of [address] (hereinafter called “the said transferee”) do hereby transfer to the said 
transferee the share (or shares) numbered in the undertaking called [name of the Company], to hold 
unto the said transferee, subject to the several conditions on which I hold the same:  
and I, the said transferee, do hereby agree to take the said share (or shares) subject to the 
conditions aforesaid. ’
8.3 The directors may decline to register any transfer of shares, not being fully paid shares, to a 
person of whom they do not approve, and may also decline to register any transfer of shares 
on which the Company has a lien.
8.4 The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless:
(a) a fee not exceeding [$1.00] is paid to the company in respect thereof; and
(b) the instrument of transfer is accompanied by the certificate of the shares to which it 
relates and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right 
of the transferor to make the transfer.
8.5 If the directors refuse to register a transfer of any shares, they shall, within two months after 
the date on which the transfer was lodged with the Company, send to the transferee notice 
of the refusal.
8.6 The legal personal representative of a deceased sole holder of a share shall be the only person 
recognised by the company as having any title to the share. In the case of a share registered in 
the names of two or more holders, the survivors, survivor or the legal personal representatives 
of the deceased survivor, shall be the only person recognised by the company as having any title 
to the share.
8.7 Any person becoming entitled to a share in consequence of the death or bankruptcy of a 
member shall, upon such evidence being produced as may from time to time be properly 
required by the directors, have the right either to be registered as a member in respect of the 
share or, instead of being registered himself, to make such transfer of the share as the deceased 
or bankrupt person could have made; but the directors shall, in either case, have the same right 
to decline or suspend registration as they would have had in the case of a transfer of the share 
by the deceased or bankrupt person before the death or bankruptcy.
8.8 A person becoming entitled to a share by reason of the death or bankruptcy of the holder 
shall be entitled to the same dividends and other advantages to which he would be entitled 
if he were the registered holder of the share, except that he shall not, before being registered 
as a member in respect of the share, be entitled in respect of it to exercise any right conferred 
by membership in relation to meetings of the company.

===== PAGE 10 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
10
9. Alteration of Capital
9.1 The company may, from time to time by special resolution, increase the share capital by such 
sum, to be divided into shares of such amount, as the resolution shall prescribe.
9.2 The new shares shall be subject to the same provisions with reference to the payment of calls, 
lien, transfer, transmission, forfeiture and otherwise as the shares in the original share capital.
9.3 The Company may, by special resolution, reduce its share capital and any capital redemption 
reserve fund in any manner and with, and subject to, any incident authorised and consent 
required by the Companies Legislation.
10. General Meetings
10.1 The first general meeting of the Company shall be held within a period of not more than 
18 months from the day that the Company has the right to commence business.
10.2 A general meeting (‘the annual general meeting’) shall be held once in every calendar year 
at such time (not being more than 15 months after the holding of the last preceding general 
meeting) and place as may be resolved by the company in general meeting. If the directors fail 
to convene an annual general meeting it may be convened by any two members in the same 
manner as nearly as possible as that in which meetings are to be convened by the directors.
10.3 All general meetings other than annual general meetings shall be called extraordinary [special] 
general meetings.
10.4 The directors may, whenever they think fit, convene an extraordinary special general meeting. 
Alternatively any two members of the company holding at least 10% of the issued share capital 
of the Company may convene an extraordinary special general meeting in the same manner as 
nearly as possible as that in which meetings may be convened by the directors.
11. Notice of General Meetings
11.1 Subject to the requirements of the Companies Legislation relating to [special] resolutions, 
at least 14 clear days’ notice in writing (exclusive of the day on which the notice is served or 
deemed to be served, and of the day for which notice is given) specifying the place, the day 
and hour of meeting and, in case of special business, the general nature of that business shall 
be given in the manner provided by para.27 of these articles, to such persons as are entitled to 
receive such notices from the company.
11.2 A general meeting may be convened by such shorter notice with the consent of all the members 
entitled to receive notice of the meeting, and in such manner as those members may think fit.
11.3 The accidental omission to give notice of a meeting to, or the non-receipt of a notice 
of a meeting by any member shall not invalidate the proceedings at any meeting.
12. Proceedings at General Meetings
12.1 All business shall be deemed special that is transacted at any extraordinary special meeting, 
and also all that is transacted at an annual general meeting, with the exception of sanctioning 
a dividend, consideration of the accounts, balance sheets, and the report of the directors 

===== PAGE 11 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
11
(and auditors, if any) and the election of directors and other officers in the place of those retiring 
by rotation.
12.2 No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless a quorum of members is present 
at the time when the meeting proceeds to business; save as herein otherwise provided, two 
shareholders personally present shall be a quorum unless the company has a sole shareholder in 
which case a quorum is one and the sole shareholder can pass a written resolution in accordance 
with art.12.11.
12.3 If, within half an hour from the time appointed for the meeting, a quorum is not present, the 
meeting, if convened upon the requisition of members, shall be dissolved; in any other case 
it shall stand adjourned to the same day in the next week, at the time and place, and if at the 
adjourned meeting a quorum is not present within half an hour from the time appointed for the 
meeting the members present shall be a quorum.
12.4 The shareholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall elect by majority vote 
one of their number to act as chairman.
12.5 The chairman may with the consent of any meeting at which a quorum is present (and shall if so 
directed by the meeting), adjourn the meeting from time to time and from place to place, but no 
business shall be transacted at any adjourned meeting other than the business left unfinished at 
the meeting from which the adjournment took place. When a meeting is adjourned for 10 days 
or more, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given as in the case of an original meeting. 
Save as aforesaid it shall not be necessary to give any notice of an adjournment or of the 
business to be transacted at an adjourned meeting.
12.6 At any general meeting a resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be decided on a 
show of hands, unless a poll is (before or on the declaration of the result of the show of hands) 
demanded by at least three members present in person or by proxy entitled to vote or by one 
member or two members together holding not less than 15% of the paid up capital of the 
Company.
12.7 Unless a poll is so demanded, a declaration by the chairman that a resolution has, on a show of 
hands, been carried, carried unanimously, carried by a particular majority or lost, and an entry 
to that effect in the book of the proceedings of the Company, shall be conclusive evidence of 
the fact without proof of the number or proportion of the votes recorded in favour of, or against, 
that resolution.
12.8 If a poll is duly demanded it shall be taken in such manner as the chairman directs, and the result 
of the poll shall be deemed to be the resolution of the meeting at which the poll was demanded.
12.9 In the case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands or on a poll, the chairman of the 
meeting at which the poll is demanded shall be entitled to a second or casting vote.
12.10 A poll demanded on the election of a chairman or on a question of adjournment shall be taken 
forthwith; a poll demanded on any other question shall be taken at such time as the chairman 
of the meeting directs.
12.11 A resolution in writing, signed by all of the shareholders for the time being entitled to receive 
notice of a general meeting of the Company and vote thereat, shall be as valid and effective as 

===== PAGE 12 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
12
 if it had been passed at a general meeting of the Company duly convened and held, and may 
consist of several documents in like form signed by any one or more of the shareholders
13. Votes of Members
13.1 On a show of hands every member present in person shall have one vote. On a poll every 
member shall have one vote for each share of which he is the holder.
13.2 In the case of joint holders the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person 
or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders, and for 
this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register 
of members.
13.3 A member of unsound mind, or in respect of whom an order has been made by any court having 
jurisdiction in lunacy, may vote, whether on a show of hand or on a poll, by his committee or 
other person in the nature of a committee appointed by that court, and any such committee 
or other person, may, on a poll, vote by proxy.
13.4 No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting unless all calls or other sums 
presently payable by him in respect of shares in the company have been paid.
13.5 On a poll votes may be given either personally or by proxy.
13.6 The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or his 
attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointor is a corporation, either under seal 
or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised. A proxy need not be a member 
of the company.
13.7 The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under 
which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of that power or authority shall be deposited 
at the registered office of the company not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the 
meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the instrument proposes to vote, 
and in default the instrument of proxy shall not be treated as valid.
13.8 An instrument appointing a proxy may be in the following form or any other form approved 
by the directors:
‘I, [name of shareholder], of [address], being a member of the [name of Company] hereby 
appoint [name of proxy] of [address] as my proxy, to vote for me and on my behalf at 
the ordinary [or extraordinary] general meeting of the Company to be held on the [date], 
and at any adjournment thereof. ’
[Signed by shareholder and dated].
14. Corporations acting by representatives at general meetings
Any corporation which is a member of the Company may, by resolution of its directors or other 
governing body, authorise such persons as it thinks fit to act as its representative at any meeting 
of the company or of any class of members of the company, and the person so authorised shall 
be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of the corporation which he represents as that 
corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the company.

===== PAGE 13 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
13
15. Appointment of Directors
15.1 The number of the directors and the names of the first directors shall be determined in writing 
by a majority of the subscribers of the memorandum of association.
15.2 Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution the number of directors shall be without 
limit and the minimum number shall be one.
15.3 The Company may, by ordinary resolution, remove a director before the expiration of his period 
in office, notwithstanding anything in any agreement between the company and such director.
15.4 The Company may, by an ordinary resolution, appoint another person in place of the director 
so removed under the preceding article. The person so appointed shall be subject to retirement 
at the same time as if he had become a director on the day on which the director in whose place 
he is appointed was last elected a director.
16. Rotation of Directors
16.1 At the first annual general meeting of the company the whole of the directors shall retire from 
office, and at the annual general meeting in every subsequent year one third of the directors for 
the time being, or, if their number is not three or a multiple of three, then the number nearest 
one third, shall retire from office.
16.2 The directors to retire in every year shall be those who have been longest in office since their 
last election but as between persons who became directors on the same day those to retire shall 
(unless they otherwise agree among themselves) be determined by lot.
16.3 A retiring director shall be eligible for re-election.
17. Disqualification of Directors
17.1 The office of director shall be vacated, if the director:
(a) without the consent of the company in general meeting, holds any other office of profit 
under the company except that of managing director or manager;
(b) becomes bankrupt;
(c) is found to be or becomes of unsound mind;
(d) resigns his office by notice in writing to the company; or
(e) is directly or indirectly interested in any contract with the company or participates in the 
profits of any contract with the company:
17.2 A director shall not vacate his office under the preceding paragraph by reason of his being a 
member of any corporation which has entered into a contract with or done any work for the 
company if he has declared the nature of his interest at the first meeting of the directors of 
the company held after he became interested in the contract, but the director shall not vote in 
respect of any such contract or work or any matter arising thereout, and if he does so vote his 
vote shall not be counted.

===== PAGE 14 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
14
18. Remuneration of directors and director’s interests
18.1 The remuneration of the directors shall be determined from time to time by the Company in 
general meeting.
18.2 A director [or other officer of the Company] may enter into a contract or other arrangement 
with the Company (either as vendor, purchaser, lessor, lessee, manager, agent, broker or 
otherwise) provided that the director shall disclose, at the board meeting at which the contract 
or arrangement is determined, the nature of his interest but the director shall not vote in respect 
of such contract or arrangement or on any matter arising in connection therewith.
18.3 A director may occupy any other office or position in the Company or act in any professional 
capacity to the Company in conjunction with his office of director, and on such terms as to 
remuneration or otherwise as the directors shall think fit.
19. Powers of directors
19.1 The business of the Company shall be managed by the directors, who may pay all 
expenses incurred in setting up and registering the company, and may exercise all such 
powers of the Company as are not, by the Companies Legislation or these articles, required 
to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
19.2 The directors may, by power of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person to be the agent 
of the Company, for such purposes and on such conditions, as the directors determine
19.3 The directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company to borrow money and 
to mortgage or charge its undertaking and property, or any part thereof, and to issue 
securities whether outright or as security for any debt, liability or obligation of the 
Company, PROVIDED THAT the amount for the time being remaining undischarged of money 
borrowed by the directors shall not without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of 
the Company exceed $1 million.
19.4 Without prejudice to the provisions of para.29 of these articles, the directors shall have 
power to purchase and maintain insurance for any persons who are, or were at any time, 
directors, officers or employees or the company, including insurance against any liability 
incurred by such persons in respect of any act or omission in the actual or purported 
execution of their powers or otherwise in relation to their duties to the Company.
20. Proceedings of Directors
20.1 The directors may meet together for the despatch of business, adjourn and otherwise regulate 
their meetings, as they think fit.
20.2 Questions arising at any meeting shall be decided by a majority of votes. In case of an equality of 
votes the chairman shall have a second or casting vote.
20.3 A director may, and the secretary on the requisition of a director shall, at any time, summon a 
meeting of the directors.
20.4 The quorum necessary for the transaction of the business of the directors may be fixed by the 
directors, and unless so fixed shall be two [except that where the number of directors has been 

===== PAGE 15 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
15
fixed at one pursuant to para.15.2 of these articles, a sole director shall be deemed to form 
a quorum].
20.5 If and so far as there is a sole director, he may exercise all the powers conferred upon the 
directors by these articles by resolution in writing signed by him.
20.6 A meeting of directors, or committee of directors, may be validly held notwithstanding that such 
directors may not be in the same place, provided that:
(a) they are in constant communication with each other throughout by telephone, television 
or some other form of communication; and
(b) all directors entitled to attend such meeting agree.
20.7 A person participating in such meeting as provided for by para.20.6 shall be deemed to be 
present in person and so shall be counted in the quorum and be entitled to vote. Such meeting 
shall be deemed to take place where the largest group of those participating is assembled, 
or, if there is no such group, where the chairman of the meeting is situated.
20.8 The continuing directors, [or sole director], may act notwithstanding any vacancy in their body, 
but, if and so long as their number is reduced below the number fixed by or pursuant to the 
articles of the company as the necessary quorum of directors, the continuing directors may 
act for the purpose of increasing the number of directors to that number, or of summoning 
a general meeting of the company, but for no other purpose.
20.9 The directors may elect a chairman of their meetings and determine the period for which he is 
to hold office; but if no such chairman is elected, or if at any meeting the chairman is not present 
within five minutes after the time appointed for holding the same, the directors present may 
choose one of their number to be chairman of the meeting.
20.10 The directors may delegate any of their powers to committees consisting of such member or 
members of their body as they think fit; any committee so formed shall, in the exercise of the 
powers so delegated, conform to any regulations that may be imposed on it by the directors.
20.11 A committee may elect a chairman of its meetings; if no such chairman is elected, or if at any 
meeting the chairman is not present within five minutes after the time appointed for holding 
the same, the members present may choose one of their number to be chairman of the meeting.
20.12 A committee may meet and adjourn as it thinks proper. Questions arising at any meeting shall 
be determined by a majority of votes of the members present and, in case of an equality of 
votes, the chairman shall have a second or casting vote.
20.13 All acts done by any meeting of the directors or of a committee of directors, or by any person 
acting as a director, shall, notwithstanding that it be afterwards discovered that there was some 
defect in the appointment of any such director or person acting as aforesaid, or that they or any 
of them were disqualified, be as valid as if every such person had been duly appointed and was 
qualified to be a director.
20.14 The directors shall cause minutes to be made in books provided for the purpose:
(a) of all appointments of officers made by the directors;
(b) of the names of the directors present at each meeting of the directors and of any 
committee of the directors; and

===== PAGE 16 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
16
(c) of all resolutions and proceedings at all meetings of the company, and of the directors 
and of committees of directors, and every director present at any meeting of directors, 
or committee thereof, or the chairman shall sign his name in a book to be kept for 
that purpose.
20.15 A resolution in writing, signed by all the directors for the time being entitled to receive notice 
of a meeting of directors, shall be as valid and effective as if it had been passed at a meeting 
of directors duly convened and held, and may consist of several documents in like form signed 
by any one or more of the directors.
21. Officers of the company
21.1 The Secretary of the Company shall be appointed by the directors for such term at such 
remuneration and upon such conditions as they think fit; and any secretary so appointed may 
be removed by them.
21.2 No person shall be appointed as secretary who is:
(a) the sole director of the Company;
(b) a corporation, the sole director of which is the sole Director of the Company;
(c) the sole director of a corporation which is the sole Director of the Company.
21.3 A provision in these articles requiring a thing to be done by a director and the secretary shall not 
be satisfied by it being done by the same person acting as both Director and Secretary.
22. The Seal
The seal of the Company shall not be affixed to any instrument except by the authority of a 
resolution of a board of directors, and in the presence of a director and of the secretary or such 
other person as the directors may appoint for the purpose; and that director and the secretary 
or other person as aforesaid shall sign every instrument to which any seal of the company is 
so affixed in their presence.
23. Dividends and Reserve
23.1 The Company, by ordinary resolution in general meeting, may declare dividends to be paid to 
shareholders, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by directors.
23.2 The directors may, from time to time, pay to the shareholders such interim dividends as appear 
to the directors to be justified by the profits of the company.
23.3 No dividends shall be paid otherwise than out of profits.
24. Capitalisation of profits
The directors may, with the authority of an ordinary resolution of the Company resolve to 
capitalise any undistributed profits, namely any part of the Company’s reserve accounts, 
or monies standing to the credit of the Company’s profit and loss account or otherwise available 
for distribution;

===== PAGE 17 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
17
25. Accounts
25.1 The directors shall cause proper books of account to be kept with respect to:
(a) all sums of money received and expended by the company, and the matters in respect 
of which the receipt and expenditure takes place; and
(b) all sales and purchases of goods and services by the company and the assets and liabilities 
of the company.
25.2 The books of account shall be kept at the registered office of the Company, or at such other 
place or places as the directors think fit, and shall always be open to the inspection of the 
directors.
25.3 The directors shall, from time to time, determine whether and to what extent, at what times and 
places and under what conditions or regulations the accounts and books of the company or 
any of them shall be open to the inspection of members not being directors, and no member 
(not being a director) shall have any right of inspecting any account, book or document of 
the company except as conferred by law or authorised by the directors or by the company 
in general meeting.
26. Audit
The accounts relating to the company’s affairs may be audited in such manner as the Company 
by ordinary resolution determines from time to time in general meeting or, failing any such 
determination, by the directors.
27. Service
27.1 A notice may be given by the company to any member either personally or by sending it by post 
to him to his registered address, or by email to the email address (the ‘registered email address’) 
supplied by him to the Company for the giving of notices to him.
27.2 Where a notice is sent by post, service of the notice shall be deemed to be effected by properly 
addressing, prepaying, and posting a letter containing the notice, and to have been effected in 
the case of a notice of a meeting on the fourth day after the letter containing the same is posted, 
and in the case of a notice sent by email to the registered email address, upon sending.
27.3 A notice may be given by the company to the joint holders of a share by giving the notice to the 
joint holder named first in the register of members in respect of the share.
27.4 A notice may be given by the company to the persons entitled to a share in consequence of 
the death or bankruptcy of a member by sending it through the post in a prepaid envelope 
addressed to them by name, or by the title of representatives of the deceased or trustee of 
the bankrupt or by any like description, at the address, if any, supplied for the purpose by the 
persons claiming to be so entitled, or (until such an address has been so supplied), by giving the 
notice in any manner in which the same might have been given if the death or bankruptcy had 
not occurred.

===== PAGE 18 =====
STEP Advanced Certificate in Company Law and Practice (International)
Specimen Examination Paper 1 
18
27.5 Notice of every general meeting shall be given in some manner herein before authorised to:
(a) every member who has supplied to the Company an address or registered facsimile 
number for the giving of notices to him; and
(b) every person entitled to a share in consequence of the death or bankruptcy of a member, 
who, but for his death or bankruptcy, would be entitled to receive notice of the meeting
(c) every director who is not also a shareholder.
No other person shall be entitled to receive notices of general meetings. 
28. Winding up
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction of a special resolution, divide 
amongst the shareholders in specie the whole or any part of the assets of the Company, and may 
for such purpose, set such value as he deems fair 
and may determine how such division shall be carried out between shareholders. The liquidator 
may, with like sanction, vest the whole or part of such assets in trustees upon such trusts as the 
liquidator thinks fit.
29. Exclusion of liability and indemnity
29.1 The directors, secretary, [resident representative] or other officers for the time being of the 
Company shall not, in the absence of bad faith, fraud or dishonesty, be liable for loss suffered 
by the Company arising from any error, oversight or mistake in their performance or purported 
performance of their duties, to the fullest extent permitted by the laws of [jurisdiction].
29.2 The directors, secretary and other officers and servants or agents for the time being of the 
Company shall be indemnified out of the assets of the company from and against all actions, 
liabilities, damages and all reasonable costs and expenses (in respect of which they may 
lawfully be indemnified under the laws of [jurisdiction]) which they may incur by reason of 
an act, omission, contract entered into in or about the execution of their duties, except such 
liability they may incur through their own wilful default, bad faith or fraud and provided that 
such indemnity shall not extend to matters which would render it void under the Companies 
Legislation.
29.3 No director, secretary, officer, servant or agent of the Company shall be liable for the acts, 
neglect, receipt or default of the others or of any bankers, brokers or other persons with whom 
money or property belonging to the Company shall be lodged or deposited for safe custody or 
into whose hands money or assets of the Company may come, or for any loss or damage caused 
by an error of judgement or oversight except in so far as the same shall be caused by their own 
wilful default.

===== PAGE 19 =====
All rights are reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, 
or transmitted in any form or by any means – electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or 
otherwise – without the prior permission of CLT International Ltd. 
Crown copyright material is licensed under the Open Government Licence 3.0. T o view this licence, 
visit https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/.
While all reasonable care has been taken in the preparation of this manual, neither CLT International Ltd 
nor any of the authors accept responsibility for any errors it may contain or for any loss sustained by 
any person placing reliance upon its contents.
© CLT International Ltd 2025 CLI16/16363